90 Min Beef Stew

Ingredients:
	•	2 x 1 tsbp oil and/or beef fat
		⁃	If you have rendered fat reserved from previous cook, use that instead of oil for best flavor. But don’t use the fat from the beef you buy, then you’re taking away from the stew.
	•	1.5-2LB stew beef
	•	1/4 cup flour, set aside in a bowl
	•	1 QT (box) of Beef/Vegetable Stock
	•	28oz of Canned Crushed Tomatoes
	•	4 Cloves Garlic, pressed if possible
	•	1-2 Small/Medium Onion
	•	2-3 Carrots
	•	3-4 Celery Stalks
	•	2 tbsp of Tomato Paste (optional but not really)
	•	1 Shot of Brandy (Optional)
	•	1/2 Glass of Red Wine (Optional)
	•	Spices (CAPS = required, others are optional but recommended):
		⁃SALT
		⁃PEPPER
		⁃RED CHILI FLAKES (aka Crushed Red Pepper)
		⁃2-3 BAY LEAVES
		⁃Rosemary
		⁃Thyme
		⁃Onion Powder
		⁃Garlic Powder
		⁃Cumin
		⁃Cayenne

––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Steps

	1.	Cut up all veggies into ~1inch chunks. Press or roughly chop garlic. Open the cans and the broth.
	2.	Salt and Pepper the beef. Let sit for at least 10 mins, or up to 1 hr in fridge
	3.	Heat dutch oven over medium high heat
	4.	After dutch oven is warm, add 1tbsp fat/oil
	5.	Take out the beef if fridged, and coat in a light (LIGHT!) layer of flour. Just enough to see it on the outside. 
	6.	Wait until you see shimmering in fat and add the beef in a single layer at the bottom of the pan. It should just barely fit. 
		- If there's too much meat to do it all in one layer, just focus on getting one good layer and don't try to cram it in. Browning is more important than cooking the meat through at this stage. Add the rest of the meat after Step 9.
	7.	Don’t touch it. You’re gonna wanna touch it. Don’t.
	8.	Once you see the gray creep up almost 2/3rds of the way up the side of the beef, toss everything with a slotted spoon, trying to flip as much as the beef as possible with the cooked side pointed up. Don’t worry about getting it all flipped.
	9.	Cook for 1 more min and then remove all the beef with said spoon into a bowl. Set aside
	10.	After everything is removed, add the onions and toss continuously until fully coated in the beef fat mixture you got going on.
	11.	Stir onions occasionally until they begin to become translucent, usually 5 mins. Add Garlic and stir
	12.	Once garlic is fragrant (< 1 min) add brandy and/or red wine if you’re indulging.  If not, slowly add ~1/4 of the stock you’re using. 
	13.	Wait for whatever liquid you just added to reach a boil. Add everything but the potatoes, stir to incorporate everything
	14.	Add the beef and whatever juices have appeared in the bowl.
	15.	Add whatever spices you want to use above. Usually around 2 tsp of each (except the spicy stuff) is fine, you have a lot of room for error. 
	16.	Add the canned tomatoes. Stir.
	17.	Add the potatoes. (Potatoes soak up everything no matter what, so you don’t need to individually season them. It will also make everything easier to stir
	18.	Pour the broth into the canned tomato can and give it a stir in the can. Get all that goodness that’s stuck to the side of the can. Add the broth to the dutch oven.
	19.	Bring to a boil on high. Once you get scared that the bubbles are gonna splash on your stove, turn it down, stir the mixture, turn heat to low and cover. 
	20.	Cook for 15 mins, stir, then partially uncover so some steam can escape but a majority is retained
	21.	Cook for additional 45-60 mins, stirring occasionally but not often.
	22.	You can cook it up to 2.5 hrs, but it’s ready to serve around the 75-90 min mark. A good “is it ready?” test is to dip a spoon into the broth and if it coats the back of the spoon (i.e. you see red + spice specks on the spoon after removing it) then it’s ready to serve.


